How do we determine how to
apply the error, trend, and
seasonal terms of an ETS model?
A good way to start is to visualize
the data by using a time series
decomposition plot.
What this plot does is separate the time
series into it's seasonal, trend, and
error components.
Let's start by looking at the data
from our business problem.
The first plot shows the actual time
series, the seasonal portion shows us
that there are seasonal pattern, we can
see in our Bates Hotel bookings that
seasonal only occurs at regular
intervals and with increasing magnitude,
meaning bookings are increasing at
a larger rate each seasonal turn.
Our trend line indicates the general
course or tendency of the time series.
It is a centered moving average
of the time series, and
fits between the seasonal peaks and
valleys.
This line is considered deseasonalized.
And lastly, the remainder is the error
in the model that calculates
the difference between the observed
value and the trendline estimate.
It's the piece that's not accounted for
by combining the seasonal piece and
the trend piece.
All time series will have this residual
error to help explain what trend and
seasonality cannot.
Making use of the trend, seasonal and
error plots shown together
in our decomposition plot
allows us to identify these main
components of the time series.
Later we can extract these component so
that we configure our exponential
smoothing model to best represent
the underlying data of our time series.